---
title: "Writing our Hello World Program"
date: "03/09/2022"
chapter: 1
subChapter: 2
---

### Chapter 1.2: Writing our Hello World Program

So far your program should look something like this:
```cpp
package hello_world
```

Next we will import a package called fmt from Odin's core collection. What is a collection?
A collection is a path to a folder containing packages. If you do not specify a collection, Odin will look for a package relative to your current file's directory.
The ***core*** collection is Odin's standard library for common things like reading files, string manipulation, json, and much more!

The fmt, format, package is used for formatting text and printing to the screen.

```cpp
package hello_world

import "core:fmt"
```

Next we have to make a procedure, specifically the main procedure. Again, what is a procedure? A procedure is what most people call a function. 
The difference is that a procedure is semantically more correct as it can modify inputted values and return values. Don't get too hung up over this! You can think of it like a function if you'd like.

The main procedure is where your program starts to execute your code.
You can read the procedure below as: a variable named main, which is of type procedure, has a function body.
```cpp
package hello_world
import "core:fmt"

main :: proc() {

}

```

Finally, we will use a procedure from the fmt package to print our "Hello World!" text :).
To use a procedure from a specific package you type "package_name.procedure_name()".
Below call the println procedure in the fmt package and put "Hello World!" between the parentheses.

The resulting code should look like this:
```cpp
package hello_world
import "core:fmt"

main :: proc() {
    fmt.println("Hello World!")
}

```

Now run this inside your hello_world folder. This will compile and run your code and name the executable to my_first_program.

```sh
odin run . -out=my_first_program
```

or if you want to run it one level outside the folder:

```sh
odin run hello_world -out=my_first_program
```

```sh
Note that your executable cannot be the same name as your folder if you are running the command from one level outside the folder.
```

If you did everything correctly, then your program should print out "Hello World!" to the console! 

***Congratulations, you just made your first Odin program!***